mkdir
cd
cd - is for Change Directory
pwd - print working directory / current directory
ls - listing files
whoami - know the current user
cat - concatinates / joines the files together
^C - is Ctrl + C to cancel the current command
clear - clears the current screen / Ctrl + L is the shortcut
If you run only cat filename it will display file contents
if you use cat firstfile secondfile it will display both files content joined
echo - takes the argument and comments on the output
Spaces betwen the words / arguments are consumed by the shell. so if you add 2 spaces. it will change to one.
if you want to keep the spaces you can use the quotes for the arugment to preserve the spaces.

you shouldn't use spaces in file names. as it will create problem accessing through terminal. or you will always have to access within quotes
ls -a will display files even hidden
ls -t will display list with created first order
cat -n will siplay the contents with lines number in start
history - history keeps the commands used in current session
cd .. - is used change to parent directory
cd . is for current directory. some sh files can only be ran from outside the directory so ./etc.sh is used
cd / will jump to the root directory
cd /Users/nomee will take you to the current user directory
there are wildcards used in terminal.
less - less will display a large file in pager style.
less command will open the file in new space and pressing q will get you back to terminal
more - more command will dispay a large file or any file in pager style by displaying the contents right on the terminal
cp - will let you copy files or directories. example cp onefile destinationFile
to copy directories use cp -r it will copy directories and files within directories.
if you want to rename the file, you can use move command: mv
example: mv commands.txt cmd.txt
or you can move from one directory to another same as cp
rm - remove files or directories. these files are not recoverable. these won't go to trash
to remove directories you can use rm -r it will remove directories and files within them
man - manual is used for documentation for any command example: man ls
man displays the documentation in less pager style
